you can't beat the algorithm but you can
trick it into growing your channel for
you I remember when I first started
YouTube I put a ton of effort in my
channel but it was just stuck even
though I was doing everything right it
made me wonder how is it that some
channels get picked up by the algorithm
While others don't for years I refused
to believe it was just luck so I dug a
little deeper and I noticed some tricks
that smaller creators were doing right
before their channels took off but I
just overlooked it so in this video
we're going to uncover the four simple
tricks that you can do to fast trck the
growth of your channel cuz they can
actually get the algorithm to push your
content and no I'm not going to tell you
to go steal somebody else's video ideas
or their
strategies that can help if done
correctly but no I'm talking about
strategies that directly impact how the
algorithm deals with your channel and
the first thing you want to do is give
signals to the algorithm on what exactly
your channel is about which seems simple
but you'd be surprised how many creators
failed to do this the right way and yes
there is a right way picture this you
start a new channel and you launch your
first video you sit there excited
waiting to see the views come in and
then they don't why well you're new here
the algorithm doesn't know what you're
talking about who to present your video
to or even what your channel is about so
what happens next is there's a 50%
chance that you'll post a second video
and there's a 50% chance that you won't
let's go with the optimistic chance that
you do Post another video again you sit
there waiting for views a few more
trickle in but not really what you're
expecting you're probably devastated
disappointed and the chances of you
making a third video just dropped a
little bit more and they continue to
drop with each frustrating attempt it's
so common by now that it actually has
its own name the first valley of death
or where many Creator dreams go to die
so how can you avoid failing before you
even begin well you can actually
overcome this and it's a trick that one
of the biggest YouTubers recommends to
all his clients it goes something like
this when we launch a channel we launch
it with five videos that is a hard and
fast rule for us so that way people go
on a significant watchtime journey in
the that first week period so that way
it tells YouTube wow this is a great
Channel that's going to get people to
watch and they're going to be really
engaged so immediately you're
jumpstarting the channel from 0 to 100
as opposed to 0o to like 10% 15% then
maybe I get on to that next video that's
Matt pad you may have heard of him The
Mastermind behind the game theorist and
a consultant helping small channels grow
well he knows what he's talking about
and what he's explaining here is one of
the biggest mistakes new creators make
launching with one video or even worse
an empty Channel his solution launch
with five videos and that has at least
two advantages with the algorithm first
uploading five videos at once shows your
audience that you're serious about your
channel it demonstrates that you have a
clear value proposition and a variety of
content to offer this can help build
trust and encourage viewers to subscribe
because now they can see that you're
committed to providing value second and
this is where the algorithm comes in
when you have multiple videos viewers
are more likely to binge watch your
content you can now lead them from one
video to another which is something you
wouldn't have been able to do had you
just launched with one video just by
doing that you've successfully and
significantly boosted your watch time
which tells the algorithm hey this
channel is engaging and keeps people
watching which obviously YouTube loves
to hear and wants more of but this
launching strategy will not matter
without mastering the next trick
strategizing to post five videos is just
the start because you have to make sure
your video topic has potential the video
topic can mean the difference between
100,000 views and 100 views the good
news is there's a way to make sure you
picked a good topic now there are tools
that can help you come up with a great
High View count topic for your YouTube
channel and the best part is they're
totally free so how do you find these
topics easy let's start with a tool that
everyone knows about Google Trends
Google Trends is great for getting a
general sense of what's popular in the
moment you can see what people are
searching and you can identify broad
trends for example if you search True
Crime you might notice that it's a
consistently popular topic with various
spikes in interest this gives a general
idea that true crime content is in
demand however to really hone in on the
specifics and maximize your video's
potential you need something a bit more
powerful that's where vid IQ comes in
let's jump to the tool and see how it
works the keyword inspector gives you a
vid IQ score which combines search
volume and competition to indicate the
potential success of the topic let's say
True Crime True Crime has a high search
volume but also High competition so we
got to dig a Little Deeper refine your
search look for related keywords with
better potential for example true crime
documentaries or true crime stories
check the vid IQ scores for these
variations you might find that true
crime stories has moderate competition
but still has a good search volume
discover new opportunities use the
related keywords to explore more
specific niches you might come across
True Crime Mysteries unsolved which has
a high vid IQ score indicating that it's
a trending topic with less competition
so this way you've not only identified a
popular Trend but also refined it to
find a specific angle that gives you the
best chance for Success this saves you
time and ensures your content will be
discovered and watched by a larger
audience and best of all you just
transformed your guest work into Data
driven strategy and look at the proof
just type in true crime stories unsolved
on YouTube and check out the views
they're in the millions indicating that
this is a topic people click on but
getting people to click is just the
start the hard part is keeping them
watching to the end it's a pretty
straightforward formula the longer you
can hold their attention the higher the
watch time this prompts the YouTube
algorithm to expose your channel to an
ever increasing audience and this is why
you need to use this simple trick way
more more than you think to explode your
retention if you've ever stumbled across
one of dodford videos you'll find that
he's a storytelling genius his
storytelling is seamless it's
captivating and it keeps you till the
end I dug deeper into what he's doing
and I found a Twitter thread of his
where he reveals a secret script writing
hack it's called the three-act structure
and he hints about it over and over so
how can you use this to increase your
watch time follow that framework not
just once but with each new segment
consider adding a hook that Peaks
curiosity a story or example to get your
point across and only give the lesson at
the end and the most important thing is
just to keep doing this over and over
through the whole script so you can keep
catching interest right before the
viewer has a chance to lose it for
example say you're creating a video on
the best way to cook steak have you ever
wondered why your steak doesn't taste
like the restaurants then confront the
problem most people make these common
mistakes use viid descriptions and
personal stories and finally resolve it
here's the fullprof method used by top
chefs using this structure you not only
keep viewers engaged but you make your
content more memorable and impactful now
I call this next trick the lazy way to
grow your YouTube channel really really
fast and I love it because you basically
just let the algorithm do the work for
you remember when we covered how the
algorithm aims to surface the best
content that gratifies the audience well
when you upload a video that blows up or
sees tremendous success that's a clear
indication that that's what your viewers
and subscribers are wanting to watch so
all you got to do is just note that down
and hammer on it what the procreators do
and so should you is something Jenny
Hoyos calls creating buckets once you
find a format that works recreate it
over and over again and that will ensure
that it'll probably work every time
thereby exploding your channel Mr who's
the boss is doing it with his ibought
the most blank Tech series and Ryan try
is doing it with I tried one star series
even Mr Beast is doing it wow look at
the millions of views you too can easily
do this once you pinpoint a specific
video style or format that works for you
and you knock it out of the park just
keep doing it keep churning out videos
within that bucket you got to be careful
though cuz too much of a good thing can
be a bad thing here's Mr be's thought on
that every year we've had formats that
do really well if I kept doing the
formats that were Crush back in 2020 I
wouldn't be where I am now eventually
they would fizzle out I'm a big believer
in like ending on a format while you
know it's not too old have so many viral
great like ideas that I want to bring to
life there is just like so many videos I
want to film and like so many different
ideas that no one else is doing that I
want to bring to the table that it's
like I don't want to do 15 of those
because like those other eight that I
would do I could have done something
more original and creative so yeah
definitely milk that winning format but
you don't want to become overly relying
on it keep experimenting cuz that will
allow you to consistently tap into your
viewers interests while exploring some
other Concepts that might unlock a new
audience speaking of new audiences did
you know there's a way to gain 1,000
Subs super fast no really well there is
check this video out to see what I'm
talking about